well might as well just restate what it
was the start of the it's very brief
because I it out I said that I don't
think that theatricality and honesty are
mutually exclusive on the contrary I
think that sometimes you know the way to
be honest you know requires
theatricality like you need to be
theatrical in order to be honest in
order to express something honestly may
involve a certain kind of theatricality
then the other premise just linked to
that was the idea that democracy itself
involves theater and theatricality and
it has since since ancient Athens so I
do see that kind of performance in
theatricality of things so you know now
I know he asked me a question before
that was in response to and then I'm not
I'm not sure what his objection is to
that but that's what he said is that
he's for some reason he reacts
negatively to this generalization I
can't understand why you might say that
but what I was trying to argue is that
like if you do stay like if you start
being true to yourself like have you
ever experienced that like by being calm
and relaxed and not using the at reality
to prove your point that you will have
nothing to do so why do you need to use
yeah okay okay so I think there is
something to lose I think there is a
real disadvantage to not being
theatrical and you see that in democracy
in ancient times and still today so you
know in American government in the
American system of Congress in the
Senate when people were arguing against
cigarettes that cigarettes cause cancer
they brought in heartbreaking examples
of people whose lives have been
destroyed by cigarettes and they stood
there in front of Congress and they
broke count weeping and this is a
significant form of theatricality
seatbelts trying to get laws about
seatbelts
even the debates legally about the side
effects of certain medicines they bring
in people whose lives have been
destroyed her father whose daughter was
killed and they give really passionate
voice to that a
another infamous example by the way I'm
putting together the case for the Iraq
war they've brought in someone who had
allegedly you know was talking about
suffering in the Iraq war and it was
later revealed that this was to some
extent a phony or misleading instance
they're just within modern American
politics the Vietnam War Iraq war and so
on the theatricality is a really
significant part of democracy now could
I come on YouTube and talk about vegan
activism in a completely dispassionate
or even robotic way I could it's a
choice not to could I talk about my own
divorce or my own personal life in a
dispassionate vote I could it's a choice
not to so you know I'm just saying I'm
someone who's consciously aware of that
and there's a certain level of
theatricality in my in my YouTube videos
and there is in real life also I would I
would say as a very real example that
many people here will have experienced
what if you are begging with a police
officer or a border guard someone who
has real direct power over you a power
of life and death and power to [ __ ] up
your life what if you have to convince
someone in that position to do the right
thing or the choice being robotic or
dispassionate or something or not
expressing your case emotionally is not
is not in your favor
so I think theatricality is an important
part of public life including YouTube
and including you know to formal
democracy and informal situations we're
all not sure I understand what you said
I guess I'm arguing against using like
like when you had that debate with
either buster you are like you know
being aggressive towards him do you
thought that you could have been more
like calm and just like just prove your
point without I could have but it's a
choice
so as I've outlined I mean it's it's a
[Music]
have you thought about like what he may
feel after if you do it like aggressive
like that take your point like he may
start to be more defensive and then you
have you ever thought like okay no I
should just relax
tell him properly so that he doesn't try
to get the wrong idea
yes and does he think about how I feel
right what what about how I feel
does that count for nothing this is a
one-to-one consideration there are his
feelings they're also my feelings
involved the other consideration is the
audience what the performance means for
the audience
III don't think living I'm going to just
one more sentence I don't think living a
lie is good for me I don't think it's
good for him and I don't think it's good
for the audience either I don't I think
that authenticity and really sharing how
you feel about things I think is good
for me is good for him and it's good for
the audience I saw it on civil that when
like you're a back-and-forth
conversation with I saw Buster in the
chat like what I saw from it is that
maybe he like you know I watched your
videos and what you say is
thought-provoking so maybe I feel like
he may not have seen this side from you
while you are debating him and maybe
like yeah I understand your concern I
understand your concern but I mean I
think another another kind of criterion
to bring to this would be to ask this oh
this isn't the question you're asking
this to be a stronger question to demand
me you could ask
aisel your theatrical behavior do you
think it makes you more friends or makes
you more enemies or like is this a good
way to make friends so I just say that
would be your same kind of objection but
more forcefully stated and my answer to
that is you know by being really honest
with people
I make the right friends because if I
came on if I were phony or I really
pretended to be someone I'm not
then the people who might want to be
friends of me they wouldn't be the right
people so people get to see hey I'm
really passionate about this issue
I'm really indifferent to this other
issue and pissed off with us of that and
then you know the right people will
respond to that in the right way and you
know I really accept that you know I
can't be friends with everyone and that
you know I'm gonna alienate some people
that way it's true but like to give a
very real example I would have more
friends if I pretended to be a socialist
or even if I pretend to be a communist
sympathizer or a communist supporter I
really would and you could look at
veganism is very left-wing you know
within my lifetime it would have been a
as a winning strategy I could have been
a phony far leftist of one kind or
another whether I was an sjw or
socialist or would have even now there's
pressure on me to just be an uncritical
supporter of Bernie Sanders and I'm not
some things I agree with Bernie Sanders
not others and I'm really gonna keep it
honest but like you know I have one new
friend now who's actually a member of
the Conservative Party which I thought
would never happen not a lot of
conservatives like neither but you know
the right people people who look at that
performance and concede my feeling and
see what I feel and what I feel as well
as what I think the right people will
become my friends and by being phony or
being insincere I don't think I don't
think that would lead to those positive
outcomes so you know I understand your
objection but what you're positing
fundamentally would be that having a
kind of emotionally neutral delivery
would be advantageous in all situations
or maybe there's most situations and you
know I think that has very real
disadvantages also
I agree with you I can understand what
you're saying and you give that example
where like I think they were but using
trick allottee like some some example
about the people a time from smoking and
I think that's like that wouldn't like
provoke
I don't maybe I think that that has a
less chance to provoke someone as
opposed to being aggressive toward them
and then I have this question for us how
can you be in a way that like if you are
going to use aggression but then you
think about it like maybe I shouldn't do
it
how would you effectively make these
people understand your point even though
you know that like I I could make more
friends if I was just not doing the
right thing you know if I'm trying to
sympathize with them but that's not what
you're trying to do but you are trying
to make them try to understand your
point without them feeling like they're
being attacked okay it's it's kind of a
long complex question as I say it's true
if you took a more insincere approach
you'd make more friends but they would
be the wrong friends right so you know
an example I don't even know if ask
yourself and of Isaac would recognize
this name but you know privileged vegan
and Maxie I made very harsh criticisms
of them on my channel and I know I know
at least from privileged vegan that my
criticism er did shock her when she was
she respond to it negatively she was not
pleased to hear the criticism I directed
her that's now a couple of years ago so
if you make the argument oh well why
don't you be insincere why don't why not
why not take another approach um
I'd I really regard someone as an
immoral person for example and I'm
expressing my frustration with their
morality for example if I think they
hold a position that's racist
or that's making excuses for mass murder
or this kind of thing you know I I don't
really see how it can be coherent even
like on a psychological level for me to
dissimulate being someone other than I
am and feeling something other than I am
for the value of an abstract friendship
that I don't I wouldn't value myself and
at that point I think again you have to
remember if we're talking about only two
people we're not including the audience
in the equation I mean like right now
there's an audience here whom we may be
boring which is too bad it might be a
more entertaining be more entertaining
debate for them if I were if I were more
angry and aggressive with you but if
you're just considering the two people
then I don't really think it makes sense
to only value the emotions of one of the
two people like if I have to if I have
to suffer so that the other person
doesn't suffer and the kind of suffering
we're talking about here is a very you
know marginal suffering like for example
of what you're saying is it makes a
communist uncomfortable to be reminded
that their ideology is linked to tens of
millions of deaths or indeed I've also
criticized neo-nazis very harshly on my
channel that it upsets them to be
confronted with this this kind of truth
or this kind of counter-argument you
know I I just I just don't buy it and of
course the other thing that's that's
ridiculous about being a vegan in the
world is that of course there are people
I have really I have a really serious
moral conflict with the vast majority of
people on earth so you know to give you
an example very recently a lot of people
have seen those videos I had I had two
videos harshly criticizing an ex vegan
called a wacko Jacko Vigano now every
other YouTube channel I think except me
had this kind of loving soft approach of
like well you know he's gone back to
eating meat but maybe he could come back
they all really treated him with kids
gloves and I made a video really harshly
condemning him saying no I mean you know
let's let's be real let's really talk
this this is linked bad and evil and
wrong now who's gonna be my friend as a
result of that video
well people well maybe people who agree
with me or people who sympathize with me
or people who value the honesty but what
what possible good would it do for me
for the other person or for my audience
through me being being dishonest and by
the way that's also a great example of
theatricality and honesty being
compatible because it's true like in
that video I'm thinking of where I'm
really condemning him you know where I'm
speaking in an angry or aggressive
manner of course it's theatrical like
I'm not actually angry in a sense but
you know what I'm doing is giving voice
to something very honest and real I'm
demonstrating I'm acting out you know my
convictions are what is a what is I have
to say so you know you know
theatricality is not the enemy of
honesty I think these things can go
together and it's an important part of
of democratic and political discourse
both on this kind of personal one-to-one
level and when you scale it up